
.TH PRISMSHELL-MODS 7 "2025-09-21" "PrismBASIC" "Miscellanea"
.SH NAME
prismshell-mods \- PrismBASIC mod system
.SH OVERVIEW
Mods are PrismBASIC programs that register new shell commands. They are discovered
and loaded at shell startup from the mod search paths. Each mod calls:
.P
.EX
CALL Mod.Register("name", entryLine)
.EE
where entryLine is the line number at which execution begins when the command
is invoked.
.SH SEARCH PATHS
.TP
.I ./mods
Project-local mods directory.
.TP
.I ~/.config/prismshell/mods
User mods directory.
.TP
.I /usr/local/share/prismshell/mods
System mods directory.
.SH ARGUMENTS
When a mod command runs, the shell populates:
.TP
.B PB_CMD
Command name.
.TP
.B PB_ARGC
Argument count.
.TP
.B PB_ARG1..PB_ARGN
Individual arguments (quote-aware tokenization: "double", 'single', backslash escapes).
.TP
.B PB_ARGS
Space-joined arguments.
.TP
.B PB_ARGV
Space-joined arguments (MVP).
.SH META COMMANDS
Use these in the shell:
.TP
.B mods
List registered mods.
.TP
.B mods list
List registered mods.
.TP
.B mods enable \fIname\fR
Enable a mod.
.TP
.B mods disable \fIname\fR
Disable a mod.
.TP
.B mods reload
Rescan search paths and re-register mods.
.TP
.B mods run \fIname\fR [args...]
Run a mod directly.
.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
10 CALL Mod.Register("say", 100)
20 END
100 IF PB_ARGC = 0 THEN 1000
110 PRINT "» " + PB_ARGS
120 END
1000 PRINT "usage: say <text>"
1010 END
.EE
.SH SECURITY
Treat third-party mods as executable code. For untrusted sources, consider sandboxing
and reviewing calls used by the mod.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR prismshell (1),
.BR prismshell-language (7),
.BR prismshell-prompt (7)
